Document password reset for administrators (#6242)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/system-administration/admin-password-reset-instructions.adoc

---
layout: section
---

ifdef::backend-html5[]
:notitle:
:description:
:author:
:email: jenkinsci-users@googlegroups.com
:sectanchors:
:toc: left
endif::[]

> = Reset Jenkins administrator password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Reset the Jenkins administrator password
```
added "the"

As a system administrator, you can reset the Jenkins admin password.
In case you have forgotten or lost the password, this page provides instructions on how you can reset the admin password.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

video::_VhOMyWDIcY[youtube, width=640, height=360]
```
I would put the video up here to provide the information earlier in the page. Users may not want to go through all the instructions to then find the video and wish they had seen it before.

== Reset the administrator password

1. Log in to your Jenkins controller and edit the Jenkins configuration file (`config.xml`) inside your `jenkins/` or `$JENKINS_HOME` folder.
2. Look for the **useSecurity** option and change it from **true** to **false** manually.
3. Save your file and close it.
4. Restart the Jenkins service to apply changes. (This time it will not ask for a password.)

> 5. On the dashboard, click on **Manage Jenkins** in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. On the dashboard, select  *Manage Jenkins* in the navigation pane on the left side of the page.
```
Instead of click, use select. This makes it so the instructions are more applicable across different devices.

> 6. In **Manage Jenkins**, in the **Security** section you will get **Configure Global Security**. Click on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. On the *Manage Jenkins* page, under the *Security* section, select *Configure Global Security*.
```
removing text to make sentence flow better.

> 7. In **Security Realm**, click on the checkbox for **Jenkins' own user database** and save this. You will get redirected to the Manage Jenkins page afterwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Under *Security Realm*, select *Jenkins' own user database* from the dropdown menu and save.
This redirects you to the Manage Jenkins page.
```
updated wording to make instructions clear/accurate
Also reformatted in [sentence per line style](https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-recommended-practices/#one-sentence-per-line)

> 8. In **Security**, click on **Manage Users**.
> 9. You will see a screen showing your username with multiple tabs. Click on the **Settings** icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. In **Security**, click on **Manage Users**.
9. You will see a screen showing your username with multiple tabs. Click on the **Settings** icon.
```
The video's instructions are completely different from this, utilizing the *People* option instead to find and update things. This should be changed to match the video's instructions, so that it is aligned.

> 10. Search for the **Password** section to change your password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. Locate  the *Password* section to change your password.
```
Again, there are more steps and better clarity prior to getting to the password section, and should be included here in the instructions.

> After changing the password, you will be able to log into your Jenkins instance again using the same username but the new password that you have just set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After changing the password, you will be able to log into your Jenkins instance again using the same username but the new password that you have just set.
```
There are no instructions as to how to re-apply the security and lock the controller down, which is a key element that is missing. Without this part of the instruction, this leaves users vulnerable to anyone accessing their controller. The steps to lock the controller back down are necessary, and this cannot be merged without including that. If they are not included as steps, this needs to be made clear and why it is important in a separate paragraph/section.

Reviewer 2: I agree with this. These are necessary things to be mentioned.

> == Video demonstration of steps to reset admin password
> 
> The following link provides a video demonstration of the steps to reset the admin password, but there may be discrepancy with the steps mentioned in the above section, and is only intended for a reference.
> 
> video::_VhOMyWDIcY[youtube, width=640, height=360]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
I would suggest removing this section entirely, and ensuring that the steps being provided on this page **match** the video. The explanation that "the video has discrepancies" with the instructions provided only hurts the documentation, and we should not be providing anything that could be seen as incorrect or misleading. The video explains the proper steps, including background and reasons for security, and this description undermines that. The video is correct, the steps shown are proven to work, and are clear enough for users to follow. The other steps that are in the video, that are not included in the instructions, are important and need to be provided here.
